# Book Review of *Naked Money* by Charles Wheelan

The full title of the book is *Naked Money*: A Revealing Look at Our Financial System, which is an apt description. I found the book extremely engaging and interesting and it has been the topic of many good discussions with my friends who are also interested in economics. The book was published in 2016, while the full repercussions of the Great Financial Crisis had yet to play out, and before COVID. As far as I know, Wheelan has no plans to release an updated edition covering these events, but I would be eager to read a revised version. 

Normally I feel like these types of popular science books are too long and they often become repetitive. *Naked Money* is the exception. All chapters were very well thought out and logically structured. When reading the book there’s a natural flow between chapters which makes it easy to read. Wheelan also has a great sense of humor which helps as some of the concepts require some mental effort to fully grasp.

Another impression I get from some popular science books is that the author explains things in an unnecessarily complicated way. So much so that I sometimes think they don’t want the reader to understand but rather show off their own academic excellence. Wheelan is the opposite, he explains complex economic concepts in clear, accessible terms. There are of course some concepts I struggled with understanding and had to do a few quick google searches, but that is expected. 

Personally, I found the chapters about gold and the relationship between the US and China the most interesting. I have never really thought much about the gold standard, but it was fascinating to read about how the gold standard contributed to exacerbating and prolonging the Great Depression. Modern western countries abandoned the gold standard long before I was born, so it might be reasonable that I hadn’t given much thought to it. However, I was quite surprised by how little I knew about the US-China relationship. 

China maintains a cheap currency by buying US government bonds, essentially lending the US money, to keep growing their economy and their exports. This made me think a lot about how the global economy works and how growth and prosperity can be achieved by different countries. In the west we see this as bad practice, but we were guilty of the same in the past, so how can we deny other countries the right to do the same? This is strikingly similar to the issue of the industrialization of third world countries and how that is at odds with environmental concerns. Again, how can western countries deny others the right to industrialize as they once did?

To summarize, I think the book is very well structured, everything is well explained and balanced, and it’s filled with many interesting stories and examples. I think anyone who is interested in how the economy works should read this book. Even if you are not interested in economics, I would recommend skimming through at least the first part of the book. This will give you a basic understanding of many fundamental aspects of the modern monetary system.
