# A Body Without a Mind: A Review of *The Stranger* by Albert Camus

*The Stranger* might have one of the weirdest openings of any book I’ve read. It starts with the main character, Meursault, receiving a brief telegram of his mother’s passing. He reads it like it was some mild inconvenience, getting hung up about which day it was that his mother passed since it wasn’t specified in the message. At first, I was a bit stunned by why he would care so much about this insignificant detail, but I gave him the benefit of the doubt and excused him by attributing it to being in some kind of shock. However, I quickly understood that this guy did not possess the same set or range of feelings that “normal” people have.

The book continues to describe how while in the room with the coffin he is annoyed by a woman crying and some clicking sounds the other people are making. Even during the funeral procession, he is more concerned by the heat and the struggles of an old man behind him than anything else. This sense of apathy and indifference towards actually important things is a common theme throughout the book. It is like everything is driven purely by external forces. There is nothing that comes from within. Towards the end of the book, he is compared to the devil and even claimed to be the devil. I disagree with this and believe he is more similar to an empty shell or a robot, something that only reacts to physical stimuli and doesn’t process anything internally.

I do understand that people have varying degrees of emotional range, but for me it got a bit too absurd at two points in the book. The first one was when his girlfriend asked him to marry her. He said it made no difference to him but if she wanted it, they could get married. The second one was when he shot and murdered another person at the beach and had little to no reaction. In the trial he blamed it on the sun blinding him. These two instances again underline how Meursault is completely detached from most people’s shared reality. These two moments, which should qualify as the happiest and most regretful or disturbing moments of his life respectively, he meets with equal indifference. For Meursault there is no spectrum, there is just nothing. I find it fascinating to understand what drives people’s actions even though their actions might be stupid and even contradictory. In Meursault’s case this is not possible as he seems to lack perception of anything beyond the purely physical.

One point he does make which I believe to be true and both sad and good at the same time, is the fact that humans have the ability to adapt quite quickly to new circumstances. He makes this point while in prison where he notes that the first days were quite bad, but after a few months he got used to it, and that humans can get used to almost all circumstances. It’s of course good for survival that even though you suffer a tremendous loss you recover relatively quickly. However, it does raise the question about whether you really did appreciate what you lost. Because if you did, how could you recover so quickly? Instinctively, I believe you can truly appreciate something even though you are able to move on, but I don’t have a convincing reason why.

All in all, I did not like the book too much. I guess nihilism does not appeal much to someone like me who believes life is filled with meaning, purpose, and love. I try my best to avoid making mistakes for fear of losing relationships and things I value. Personally, I love life and find the world an incredibly beautiful place. I love life down here, and like Catherine in Wuthering Heights, if I were to die, I would beg the angels to throw me back to earth.