# Gin Rummy Down Under :sunny:

I recently came back from visiting Ingeborg (my girlfriend) in Coogee, Sydney for spring break. Before going I knew it was a great place, but I was surprised by how much I enjoyed it. Much of this is of course owed to me spending time with my girlfriend so my judgment may be a bit clouded by this. Anyway, I was really impressed by their fresh food and active lifestyle. Every meal had either fresh fruits, vegetables, nuts or clean meat. We usually had an avocado toast or an acai bowl for breakfast. In the morning it was cold enough to go for runs so we got the chance to visit Bondi beach twice during the week I was there. Other than that, we spent a lot of time on the beach, reading books and swimming. They also had these very nice baths with salt-water pools along the coast. However, one of the most memorable things we did was playing Gin Rummy (a card game) while watching the sunset in the park next to Coogee Beach. 

On the plane back to San Francisco, I thought a lot about the time I spent with Ingeborg and how much I missed her. I long to sit in that park, watching the sunset, and playing cards with her. Unfortunately, that is not possible, so I had to settle for the next best thing; we could continue to play cards online with each other. So, when I got home, I looked online to find a website where you could play Gin Rummy. To my disappointment there were few website available, and of the few that were they had a different notion of what Gin Rummy was. I then did a quick search for Gin Rummy on Wikipedia and found out that the rules described there differed wildly from our rules. I therefore decided to just implement the game myself. 

I spent the next few days coding up the game, of course with good help from my new best friend Mr. Claude (or Claude Code). I know that I am going to play a lot with Ingeborg, and I thought others might also enjoy our version of Gin Rummy. The game is therefore now online and free for anyone to use [Gin Rummy Game](https://www.ginrummycards.com/). All the rules are of course explained on the website. The code is also open source and can be found at [Gin Rummy Code](https://github.com/Sondringsen/gin-rummy). If you find any bugs feel free to contact me or make an issue or pull request in the repo.

Enjoy!
